One topic that's important to discuss in R
is
a question of, you know, when a function
sees a
symbol in its body and it's executing
inside the R
environment, how does it assign a value to
that symbol?
So for example, take a look at this, this
function here that I've defined called lm.
So lm here is a function which takes
its argument x, and it multiplies it times
itself.
So you can think of it as squaring the,
squaring the input.
Now, there's already a function in R
called lm,
so I've created an, a function here also
called lm, so when I call lm
somewhere else in R, maybe in another
function or something like that
how does R know what value to assign to
the symbol lm?
So it sees the symbol lm, and how does it
know
whether to call the function that I just
defined here or the
lm function that's in the stats package
that's
used to model, you know, to fit linear
models.
And so the, the idea that R needs to bind
a value to a symbol.
So in this case the, in the previous
slide, the symbol
was lm, and it needs to bind a value to
it.
And the value is going to be a function of
some sort.
It's either going to be my function or
it's
going to be the function in the stats
package.
And so when r tries to bind a value to a
symbol what
it does is, it searches through a
series of environments to find the
appropriate value.
So environments are kind of, you can think
of them
as lists of objects and values or symbols
and values.
And so, when you're working on the command
line, and
you need to retrieve a value of an R
object basically,
what happens is, the first thing that
happens is, you search
the global environment for a symbol name
matching the one requested.
And so for the global environment, it's
just
your workspace, and it consists of all the
things that you've defined or loaded into
R.
And so if there's a symbol there that
matches the name of the one that you're
requesting
then it will take that symbol and, and
then retrieve the value that's associated
with that symbol.
So in this case, I've defined lm in my
global environment.
And so, because that exists, if I'm
working the
command line, when I call lm, it's going
to
find that object first.
So if there, if there's no match in the
global environment, then what happens is,
the, R will search the namespaces of each
of the packages on the search list.
So if you look at.
So the search list consists of all the R
packages that are currently loaded into R.
And so you'll see that there, there's an
order to the search list.
So, and it goes starts at the first
element, which is the global environment.
That's number one
on the search list.
That's always number one on the search
list.
Now, you can see, second on the search
list is
the stats package, the graphics package,
the GR devices package.
All the way down at the very is the base
package, okay?
And so, somewhere in this list of packages
R
is going to look for a function called lm.
And, of course, if it's not in the global
environment, then it
will eventually find it in the stats
package which is the function
that's used to fit linear models.
So, as I said before, the global
environment is always, is equivalent to
the user's workspace, and it's always the
first element on the search list.
And furthermore, the base package is
always
the last element on the search list.
So, clearly because of the way that the
search process works in terms of going
down the list of packages, the order of
the packages in the search list matters.
And so, and furthermore, users can
configure
which packages get loaded when you start
up.
And for, and,
and users can also load packages whenever
they want.
So you cannot assume that there's going to
be a set list of
packages available or that the packages
will be in any sort of order.
So they can be in different orders at any
time to give
depending on the user has decided to do in
a given session.
And so, when a user loads a package with a
library function, what happens is,
the namespace of that package which is the
environment that has all the name, all the
symbols, and all those, the values for the
symbols.
The namespace of that package gets put in
the second position of the search list.
So right behind the global environment.
And then everything else just kind of get
pushed down one level.
So so, and then the search will kind of go
down, will include that new
package, including, in addition to all the
other
packages that were originally on the
search list.
One thing to note is that R
has separate namespaces for functions and
non-functions, so it is possible
to have an object named c somewhere and
the function name c.
Of course, in your global environment,
there can only be one symbol named c.
But it's possible to have for example, a
vector named c, and that
won't necessarily interfere with the
function
that already exists that's also named c.
so, this leads us to the scoping rules for
R.
which, which is which I think are the, is
the
main feature that makes it different from
the original S language.
Since, since most of you probably did not
use the original S
language, maybe, this may not, this may be
something of a moot point.
But the point is that the, the scoping
rules
are, are essentially what makes R
different from the original.
So, what are the scoping rules?
So the scoping rules determine how a value
is bound to a free variable in a function.
So if you're in a function there's two
types of variables.
There's the, there's the function
arguments that are passed
through the definition of the function,
and then there
may be other variables or other symbols
that are
found in the function that are not
function arguments.
And the question is, how do you assign a
value to those symbols.
And so R uses what's called lexical
scoping or static
scoping, and this is a common alternative
to something called dynamic scoping.
And so this is, related to the scoping
rules is how
R uses the search list to bind a value to
a symbol.
And, and one thing that's nice about
lexical scoping is that it
turns out to be particularly useful
for simplifying things like specifically
statistical calculations.
So take a look at the following function.
So, this function has two formal arguments
they're
called x and y.
And the body of the function, basically it
squares x
and it adds the ratio of y divided by z,
okay?
So, x is clear, and y is clear, but where
did z come from, right?
And so, in this case, x and y are formal
arguments, but this, the symbol z
is what's called a free variable, because
it
wasn't defined in the function, in the
function header.
And so the question is, well, what value
do we assign to z, assuming that
values were inputted to the function for x
and y.
And so, the scoping rules of a language
determine how we
assign a value to something like z, which
is a free variable.
So if I were so this, lexical scoping, the
rules in R, can be summarized by the
following sentence.
Which is basically, the values of free
variables are searched
for in the environment in which the
function was defined.
OK, so, think about that for a second,
maybe repeat it a few times.
And so, what's an environment?
An environment is a collection of
symbol-value pairs.
Right?
So, x is a symbol.
And 3.14 might be
its value.
So every symbol has a value bound to it.
And, and you can think of everything in R
as being pairs of symbols and values.
Right, so, a another symbol might be y,
and its value is a data frame, for
example.
And so every environment which is a
collection
of these symbol-value pairs, has a parent
environment.
So it's kind of like the, the environment
that sits
on top of it would that, that it inherits
from and
it's possible for an environment to have
multiple children.
So there might be one parent environment
and many children environment and
so there's only one environment without a
parent, and that's the empty environment.
And so, when, so, R uses a lot of these
types of environments.
So you think of the global environment,
which is
your workspace that is a set of
symbol-value pairs, right?
So you have a bunch of things that you've
created in your workspace, and they all
have names.
And each one
of those things has an object associated
with it.
So they might be a vector of numerics, or
it might
be a data frame, or it might be a list, or
whatever.
And so there are all kinds of these envir,
each package has a namespace, and that's
like an environment.
It has a bunch of symbols and values
associated with it.
And so what the, the key thing in R is
that if you take a function and
you associate it with an environment, then
that
creates what's called a closure or a
function closure.
And these closures are, are key to a
lot of different types of interesting
operations in R.
So, if you, if you're in a function and
you encounter a free variable in that
function what happens?
So, the first thing you look for is the
function
in which the environment in which the
function was defined.
So for example if the function was
defined, if I define a function
in the global environment, then the global
environment is the
function's, is the environment in which
the function was defined.
So if I see a free variable in this
function,
what's going to happen is that if I can't
figure out
a value inside the function, then I'm
going to look
in the global environment, because that's
where the function was defined.
If I can't find something in the global
environment, then
the search continues in what's called
called the parent environment
of the global environment.
And so the, what happens in the usual
case, if
I define a function in the global
environment, then the
function is defined in the global
environment, and then its
parent environment is the next thing down
on the search list.
So, what happens is that you just go down
the search
list until you eventually find the value
for this free variable.
Now, it's possible to define a function
outside of the global environment, and so
generally
speaking what happens is that a function
will look for
a value in the environment in which it was
defined.
And then it's going to look, if it can't
find
it there, then it's going to look for the
parent environment.
And then if it can't find it there the
search, it will keep looking at
the parent environment or the parent etc,
until
we hit what's called the top level
environment.
The top level environment is usually the
global environment, however, if the
function is defined
in a package, then the top level
environment is the namespace of that
package.
once, if you can't find a value there,
then once you hit the top level
environment, the search will continue down
the search
list until we have hit the empty
environment.
So, after the base package, for example,
then we hit the empty environment.
If you can't find a symbol in all these
environments and we've hit
the empty environment, then we throw an
error saying we can't find a value
for this symbol.